# Covid Policy Evaluation
Code and Data for the Seminarpaper Causal effectiveness of Policy Measures during the early Covid-19 Pandemic
Abstract:
In this paper we developed a causal model to estimate the effect of eight different policy categories, e.g. mask mandates and social-distance measures, on COVID-19 cases and deaths. Our causal model is based on a timed potential outcome model with three important type of variables, namely information, behavior, and policy. We use Google mobility data to model the behavior of individuals and past values of the dependent variable and overall COVID-19 deaths/cases as information variables. This results in a dynamic panel model which we estimated using the two-step general moments estimator proposed by \cite{aellano91}. We used 7-day and 14-day change rates of COVID-19 cases and deaths as dependent variable and developed a panel with 27 countries, with a focus of European and non-European countries during estimation. Additionally, we estimated the direct effect of policies on individuals’ behavior.
We find that social-distance measures work as intended, reducing case growth significantly. The same can be said for the closure of non-essential businesses. However, we cannot find convincing results on lockdowns and travel bans which do not show a consistent significant positive or negative effect. In contrast we find that prohibition of (potentially) populated events has a significant negative effect on case growth, however, due to those enactments being mostly at the beginning of the pandemic their full potential might by underrated. Mask mandates seem to have a negative effect, both on case growth as well as death growth, however, this seems to be only true for countries that adopted such measures early on. School closures seem not to consistently affect death or case growth in either way. Regarding the movement of individuals, we find that employers are not incentivized through policies to pick up home office as a standard which implies that the spectrum of possible policies probably need to be extended to increase working from home. Furthermore, we find that policies more strongly reduce cases and deaths indirectly by altering the behavior of individuals than directly. This in turn implies that a more understandable (for the individual) communication of policy goals have a greater impact than the measures itself. This is in particular true for countries where individuals put high trust and confidence in their government. Finally, we cannot find a single specific measure that significantly reduces the number of deaths due to COVID-19 regardless of country specifics most probably because measures are not tailored at reducing death growth in the first place but rather reduce the number of infection, equally considering individuals of risk and non-risk groups. 
Our research shows, that more empirical work needs to be done to analyze the effectiveness of specific policies in isolation and which measures better reduce the mobility regarding workplaces. 
